My name is Andreas Wendker.
I'm one of the managers in the
WebObjects engineering team,
and I'm responsible for the
rapid development technologies.
Right now we have two technologies
that fit into this category.
It's Direct to Web and
Direct to Java Client.
So I hope that most of you just
joined the last session that
we gave about Direct to Web,
and it's my pleasure now to talk
about Direct to Java Client.
So Direct to Java Client is
one of our newest technologies.
We just shipped it a few months ago
the first time in the release 4.5.
And it has a very similar
purpose as Direct to Web,
but it's targeted at a
different kind of applications.
It's not used to create
Internet applications or Web applications
that run in a Web browser.
It's used to create desktop applications
that are useful in the intranet.
So what I'm going to show you is
that Direct to Java Client is a very,
very strong rapid development technology
for desktop business applications.
You will see that Direct to Java Client
is nearly ideal for prototyping purposes.
And Direct to Java Client is not just
a cool wizard that makes a nice demo.
It's actually very serious stuff
that will be very helpful in
your real-world applications.
So what I'd like to talk about is,
I'd first like to give you a
short technical introduction
into Direct to Java Client,
then give a demonstration about
a typical development process,
then talk about the very
important topic of customization,
give another demo about an
application that uses various
of our customization techniques,
and then I'll give you a few good
reasons why we think you should use
Direct to Java Client and then have
the summary and question and answers.
[Transcript missing]
To develop a Java Client
application in the traditional way,
you will find you will probably
pretty much write three logical
pieces for your application.
First of all,
you have to create a database and
you have to generate an EU model
that describes this database.
You probably also want to write
some business logic for it.
This is one unit.
Then as a second step,
and I will not be able
to show you that today,
but the second piece of your
application is the user interface.
We provide you with a graphical
user interface editor which
is called Interface Builder,
which you can use to generate
windows and to drop text fields
in it and labels and buttons and
table views and all this stuff.
These interface files are the
second part of your application.
The second part of your application.
You probably also have to
write a little bit of logic
around this user interface to,
for example,
react on double clicks and table views.
Then a third part of your application
is what I call application logic.
That is all the code that you need
to connect the various user interface
components of your application.
If you press a button in one window,
then another window opens.
All this code that connects the
various pieces in your application.
That is what I call application logic.
Now there is a problem with that.
This problem is that these
pieces depend on each other.
You have to create a database.
If you change the database,
if you change your model,
then you will also have to go and
change all your interface files.
If you have a localized application
with multiple interface files
for the different languages,
it even gets worse.
Then you have to change
multiple interface files just
if you change your database.
The worst case is that you might
even have to change your application
logic because then you might even
have to open different windows.
It depends on how complex your change is.
The maintenance cost that
you have for these kinds of
applications is pretty high.
Another downside of this is that
unless you do a lot of work,
you will have to do a lot of work.
Unless you do relatively simple
API testing of your business logic,
testing is pretty complicated.
You need all these three pieces.
You have a long bootstrapping time.
You first have to sit down and
write code for all these three
pieces to get something on
the screen that you can test.
Obviously,
that's pretty bad for prototyping
because you will waste a lot of time.
When we shipped the Java Client
technology the first time in 4.0,
which is one and a half years ago now,
I think,
we saw that it's actually pretty good.
We saw that it's actually pretty
complicated to create an application.
There are lots of steps involved just
to bootstrap this development process.
We wanted to do something for
you that makes it much easier
to develop these applications.
What we came up with is
Direct-to-Java Client.
The idea behind Direct-to-Java Client
is to generate the application logic
and the user interface dynamically
for you just based on the EU model
like we do it in Direct-to-Web.
The advantage is that you
can sit down and develop,
test, and polish your business logic
without wasting any time on
user interface development or
writing your application logic.
You can really fully concentrate
on the business logic.
When the business logic is finalized,
then you can go ahead and invest
time into the user interface.
The stages you go through if you
use Direct-to-Java Client is that,
like in the traditional development,
you will have to create a database and a
model and some business logic around it.
Then you take that and stuff it into
this dynamic application engine.
What you get is a default application,
very similar to what is
done in Direct to Web.
This default application might already
be good enough to show it to a customer.
It can actually act as a
first prototype already.
But you probably want to tune
it a little bit and do some
relatively simple customizations.
For example,
change our selection of properties
that we use to query for data objects.
Or you want to maybe just
change the order of text
fields in the user interface.
Stuff like that.
For that, we provide you with a tool
which is called the Assistant,
similar to Direct to Web.
With this Assistant,
you can do these relatively
simple customizations.
You will end up with
a custom application.
Our recommendation is that you
stay on this level as long as
possible and first invest the time
to implement your business logic.
Then when you show it to your
customer again and again,
and he is finally content
with the business logic
happening in your application,
then you can go ahead
and polish it and make,
for example,
layout changes that are very specialized.
I will show you a few examples of that.
How do we generate this user interface?
The first thing you need to
know for that is that we,
on the client side,
provide you with a bunch of
objects that we call controllers.
We have controllers
for all kinds of tasks.
One controller is the
application object itself.
The application object is the
object that is responsible for
bootstrapping your application.
It's the object that has the
main function that starts the
application and that takes care
of opening the first windows.
It's also the center point of contact.
You're looking for other controllers
and other windows in your application.
Then we have purely user
interface related controllers.
For example,
we have a window controller that knows
how to react on changes in the window.
The user presses the close button.
We have tab view controllers,
all this stuff.
Another type of controllers
are controllers that we call
entity level controllers.
These entity level controllers
work with your business objects
on the level of the object itself.
They define how you
can query for objects,
how you can edit them,
or how you display them in a table,
in a list.
The fourth type of controller
that we have is called
property level controllers.
They also deal with your business object,
but they do it just with
one property at a time.
For example, a text view controller that
just displays one attribute,
like the name of a customer,
or action buttons, or things like that.
Now, these controllers not only
know how to react on changes,
they know how to react on events that
are triggered in the user interface,
for example, a button click or so.
They also know how to
generate the user interface.
The text view controller knows
how to create a text view.
The window controller knows
how to create a window.
Then they also know how to
lay out the views that are
generated in a reasonable way.
The most important information for them
to do the layout is actually that the
controllers are organized in a hierarchy.
The easiest way for me to explain it is
probably by taking a look at an example.
If you take a look at this window here,
you see that there's a toolbar in there.
It has a text field and a tab view,
the two views in it.
The root controller for a window like
this would be a window controller.
Then inside this window,
we have a toolbar controller.
The toolbar controller is a
subcontroller of the window controller.
Then inside there,
we have a text field and a tab view.
As we can see in the tab view,
we have two more views.
One is for the roles,
one is for the plot summary.
In the role view,
we have a table view with two columns.
In the plot summary,
we have--you can't see it,
but it would be reasonable to assume
that there's something like a text
area that displays a larger text.
The hierarchy of controllers pretty
much also reflects the view hierarchy
that we generate for the user interface.
We know what kind of objects
we use on the client side to
generate the user interface,
but the question is still where
do these objects come from?
The answer is they come from the server.
The reason for that is, most of all,
I would say security and second of all,
performance.
The user interface is generated
based on the EO model.
To generate the user interface
and the hierarchy of controllers,
we have to take a look at the model.
This is information that we for sure
don't want to send to the client
because it would be very unsecure.
In addition to that,
most of the user interfaces are
the same for all kinds of clients.
If you generate the hierarchy of
controllers on the server side,
we can do it once and then
reuse it for multiple clients.
The format that we use to describe
the hierarchy of controllers is XML.
I gave you an example.
It's actually pretty much the
same example as this one here.
We have a window controller,
a toolbar controller.
This is the hierarchy of
controllers described in XML.
So, like in Direct to Web,
on the server side,
we use a rule system to generate this
XML description of the user interface.
For now it's good enough if
you just keep in mind that the
rule system is customizable,
that you can plug in your own rules.
So you can plug in your own rules,
but actually we provide you with
a huge set of default rules.
And so these default rules analyze the
EO model and then try to come up with a
reasonable user interface for the data.
And the first thing they need to do is
they need to categorize the different
entities that you have in your EO model.
And we pretty much have three,
we distinguish between
three kinds of entities.
One we call the main entities,
the other one we call
enumeration entities,
and for the third one
we don't have a name,
just everything else.
So main entities represent the
business objects that are kind of
the primary objects in your database.
Typical examples are a customer,
an object that's an entity
that represents a customer.
That's a typical main entity.
But on the other side the address
is attached to the customer.
Or maybe the phone number
That is kind of secondary information.
This is what we call the other stuff.
And then it also turns out that
most databases have a lot of
different types of information.
A huge number of entities that also
match the definition of a main entity,
but they are much simpler.
They are usually just
used for pick lists.
Examples are the 52 states of America.
Another example could be
a category for a movie,
whether it's a drama or
whether it's a comedy.
These kinds of pick lists are usually
stored in very simple database tables.
The reason why we distinguish
between them is that it actually
makes sense to create two different
kinds of user interfaces for
these main enumeration entities.
For main entities,
we create a query window that
allows to search for objects.
From this query window,
you can open other detail windows.
If you need to select one,
we have a modal dialog for you.
For enumeration entities,
we can make that much simpler
because usually there are only
a few objects in the entity.
There are only 52 states.
So for N-Variation entities,
we create a much simpler
editor window and then we need
to select a reference then.
We just create a combo
box or so to display them.
We don't need a full window
and a query interface for that.
I'd like to also give you an
example about that and have
something that looks similar to an
entity-relationship diagram here.
This is pretty much a subset of
the standard movie rental example,
a little bit modified to make
the example a little clearer.
We have a talent in there,
we have a movie entity in there,
the movie has a category,
and then attached to the movie we
have a plot summary and a voting.
When the default rules start
analyzing this database scheme,
let's say they start with a talent photo,
these default rules will find
out that the talent photo
actually depends on the talent.
There's no reason to have it,
or there's no use for having a
talent photo without the talent.
The default rules analyze mostly the
relationships between these entities.
In this case,
they become two major groups.
One is the group around
the talent entity.
Talent is what the default rules
identify as the main entity,
and talent photo and
movie role depend on it.
The second group is around the movie.
The plot summary and the voting
are attached to the movie,
and the movie role actually
belongs to both kinds of groups.
When we edit the movie,
we want to see the information
about the movie roles,
so what kind of roles
are played in this movie.
On the other side,
if you take a look at the talent,
you also want to see what kind
of roles this talent plays.
The third group is this category
which matches the definition
of an enumeration entity.
As you can see, it has a primary key and
then there's just a name.
It could be a drama or a comedy.
The default would identify
two main entities in this case
and one enumeration entity.
So now we have pretty much all the pieces
together to take a look at the complete
Direct to Java Client architecture.
It's still a three-tier architecture.
We have a WebObjects application and
we have a Java Client application.
But both on the server
and the client side,
we have extensions.
The extensions on the server side are
the rule system and the extensions
on the client side are all these
EU controllers that I described before.
Now, there will be a difference when the
application starts up because there
is no user interface defined for the
client side like in the traditional
development where you create your
interface files and interface builder.
So the first thing that has to happen
is that these extensions talk to each
other and the client asks the server,
"So what kind of user
interface shall I display?
What kind of windows shall I open
when the application starts up?"
So now the rule system will take a
look at the EU model and will create
this XML description of the windows
that are supposed to be shared.
So the client side will keep track
of all these different windows,
keep it in mind, and be able to use it.
This XML description is pretty
much a template for creating
a hierarchy of controllers.
So the client side
will keep that in mind.
And then later when the user
triggers searches on the database,
you do another request to the
server side which will probably
result in fetches in the database.
You get business objects,
they're sent to the client,
and then it's the usual stuff.
So the difference between a normal or
traditionally developed application and
a Direct to Java Client application is
that in addition to exchanging the data,
you have to exchange
information about the object.
You also have to exchange
information about the user interface.
The server is responsible for generating
the user interface on the client side.
Okay,
so I'd like to show you how that looks.
so what I have here is a Mac OS X server
machine with WebObjects 4.5,
and I'd like to show you how to create
a Direct to Java Client application.
And when you joined the
Direct to Web session,
you saw that we have a
wizard in Project Builder,
so you just create a new project.
And actually,
we didn't have the time to finish
that for Direct to Java Client,
so the thing that we have
is just a template that is
placed inside our examples.
So if you want to start developing
a Direct to Java Client application,
look inside our WebObjects
Java Client examples,
and there you will find a template that
is called Direct to Java Client template.
So for the purpose of the demo,
I placed it on my desktop.
[Transcript missing]
It's actually just a
tiny little bit modified.
I just modified our standard example,
movies and renders, a tiny little bit.
If you already know WebObjects,
you'll probably recognize this here.
It has about 20 entities.
It's not super complex,
but it's actually a
decent amount of entities.
Now, I'll just go ahead and
compile this application.
takes a moment.
That was it.
Then, oops.
Then I'm going to start the application.
I configured my user defaults so
that it actually uses a fixed URL,
so it has a fixed port number,
which you can see here.
Now I'd like to switch
to screen number three.
So here I have a Mac OS X DP4
machine and like in the keynote we
have this icon on the desktop here
which is just the generic client
pre-configured to connect to the URL that
I hard-coded here on my server side.
So I just double-click the client now.
And now what happens in the
background is that the server
takes a look at the EU model,
analyzes it,
makes assumptions about what kind of
entities are the primary entities,
and then will try to create this
user interface that you probably
already saw during the keynote.
So, in this case,
I decided that these six entities here,
Customer, Movie, Studio, Talent, Unit,
and Video, are the primary main
entities of the application.
And I can show you that, you know,
for all these entities,
it created a different kind of
query user interface for them.
So, for example,
I can go ahead and search
for movies and I guess,
whatever.
Andreas Wenkker:
And then there's the Star Wars movie.
Now,
the database that I'm using here actually
does not have the information about
the movies that we had in the keynote,
so it's not going to
have a trailer component,
but I'll show you later
how to plug in QuickTime.
So this movie window now displays the
detailed information about the movie.
So I have a few text fields that
inform me about the movie itself,
the title, the category.
And then down here in the tab view,
I pretty much take a look at all
the relationships of this movie.
So I have a plot summary, voting,
the list of directors, the roles.
And if I want to take
a look at the roles,
or at the talent, I can just open it.
So we don't have a
photo for Harrison Ford.
And he never directed any movie,
but he played actually a bunch of roles.
Let me show you another movie,
which might be a little more interesting.
You've seen it before, huh?
So this is our UF movie.
And there are a few rules in there.
One of my colleagues who will
later come up for question and
answers is my colleague Eric.
And here we actually have a photo.
Now that you've seen what kind
of application you generate,
you probably would like to
know how to customize it.
Like in Direct to Web,
you have this Assistant tool.
The Assistant is a pretty unconventional
development tool because it's actually
running inside your client application.
Here it displays me, for example,
the choice of main entities
and emulation entities that
were made by the default rules.
So I can change this order now and,
for example,
say that Studio should be more
at the top and Talent as well.
So let me just apply that
and restart to clean up.
So now as you can see,
the order here in the
user interface changed.
So we have Movie, Studio, Talent now.
And then if I want to
change the attributes that
I used to search for movies,
[Transcript missing]
Andreas Wenkker: And then Citi,
and I never know that.
Credit card is really boring,
but maybe the zip code
and we can remember.
So now just say apply,
and let me show you.
Andreas Wenkker: So, as you can see,
I changed the attributes that
are used to query for movies,
and for studios, and for talent,
and for the
It's very simple to do these
basic kinds of customizations,
changing the order of widgets
and the selection of properties
that we made to search for them.
Let's take a look at a movie window.
The default widget that is used
for character fields in the
database is a normal text field.
But actually for the summary,
for plot summary,
that can get pretty big.
I would like to see
another widget for that.
Andreas Wenkker:
Let me explain to you in a
moment what I'm doing here.
This delay is now that this assistant
actually derives a lot of information
from the server side about the EU model.
In the case of the assistant,
it actually is okay that we send
the information of the EU model
to the client side because we're
still in the developer models.
This is not the deployment mode,
so it's no problem sending this
information to the client at this time.
Andreas Wenkker:
I now selected the kind of
widget I want to work on.
As you can see, for the plot summary,
we by default use a
text field controller.
I changed it now to be a text area.
I can change the resizing.
I want it to be resizable.
I give it a minimum height.
No, I don't want to show a label.
So let me apply that and
then create a new window.
This delay again is that now it kind
of has to bootstrap this dynamic
user interface generation again.
I just changed the way the
user interface is generated so
it has reset all the caches,
and that's why we see this delay.
So now if you take a look at it,
the movie changed, right?
So now I have a completely
different widget.
So these are just a few examples of,
you know,
kind of customizations that you can do.
You can change the order of attributes.
You can choose what kind of
text fields or what kind of
widgets in general are used.
You can change format,
pattern strings for numbers or so.
There are a bunch of customizations
that are supported in the Assistant.
Okay, so actually can we go back
to the slides now please?
Okay, so I'd like to talk a little more
about customization and we have,
In a real-world development scenario,
there are different
things you need to change.
For different needs, we have different
techniques to customize.
They actually get more and more complex.
The first technique to
customize is the Assistant.
I already showed that to you.
Then we allow you to write your own
rules for the server-side rule system.
We allow you to freeze XML.
I'll explain in a moment what that means.
We allow you to implement your
own controller classes and to
plug them into the client side.
Then, the last step,
we allow you to transition into
the traditional development where
you create your user interfaces
by hand in this interface builder,
user interface creation tool,
and then just load them
on the client side.
I want to talk about all
of these a little more.
The Assistant I already showed you.
I guess most of you have seen
the Direct to Web presentation,
just the previous session.
I'm going to make this pretty short.
A rule is pretty much just
a question and an answer.
A typical question could be,
"How many columns should be used
to display ten text fields?"
A typical answer could be two.
Another question is,
"What kind of windows should be
displayed when the application
starts up?" The default answer
for that is the query window.
Other examples are, "What kind of widget,
what kind of controller should I use
to work on the character field?"
The default answer is the text field.
Actually, you can choose what kind
of widgets you want to use.
You can even plug in your own ones.
You can use rules to integrate
your own controller classes.
You can use rules to
customize the layout,
how many columns are supposed
to be used over the layout
in rows or that's in columns,
things like that.
Rules are very useful in multi-user
environments because actually
the rules allow you to create
different user interfaces dependent
on the user currently logged in.
If you have two different
users on two different clients,
you can create two different
user interfaces for them.
It's also very useful for localization.
You can choose different kinds of labels,
for example,
depending on the language of the
user who is currently logged in.
[Transcript missing]
So the next level of customization
is pretty much to start writing
a little bit of source code.
So we allow you to write
your own controller classes.
You will usually use our
classes as a base point and
then subclass these classes.
And for example,
if you want to support new
widgets that we don't support so
far-- swing has a lot of widgets,
and maybe you have your own
ones that you want to support.
So for all these kinds of
support of new functionality,
you will have to write some source code
that's been used on the client side.
So you will write client
side controller classes.
And you can do a lot of
stuff in controller classes.
You can change completely
how the application works,
how controllers interact,
what kind of reaction happens when you
make a double click in a table viewer.
So you could change all that
in the controller classes.
And so in general,
it's good to add problem
application specific functionality.
And then the last step of
customization is-- and this is
very important-- is to transition
into the traditional development,
where you start with
the interface builder,
create your files by hand,
and then you have the maximum
control over the layout.
You can place your text
fields on a pixel basis.
You can have multiple interface
files for different languages,
all this stuff.
And then it's actually fairly easy
to plug in these traditionally
developed components of your
application into the dynamically
generated part of the application.
So you do that, again, by writing a rule.
You pretty much just
tell the server side,
instead of doing this
dynamic creation of XML,
sending that to the client,
just use this interface file.
And the class is coming
with this interface file.
So it's important to keep in mind
that it's really easy to combine
the two worlds of dynamic generation
and traditional development.
Okay,
so I'd like to give another demo and
show you an application that makes
use of a few of these customizations.
I'd need screen number two again.
Perfect.
So this is an application
that I already worked on.
Let me just start that.
Again, since my user defaults
are configured correctly,
it's using the same URL now.
And number five now, please.
Screen number five.
So this is Mac OS 9.
Now I want to show you how the
application looks on Mac OS 9.
I have, like on Mac OS X,
I have an icon on my desktop,
which is the generic client.
And this, in this case,
it again connects to
the same URL as before,
but it actually uses a few
client-side classes that are
old for this application.
So it's,
this is not the complete generic client,
it has a few classes added to it.
So the first thing you will notice
is that the application startup
sequence changed completely,
right?
I don't get a query window,
I get a login window.
So I'm forced to enter a name
[Transcript missing]
The next thing you might notice is
that here in this user interface,
I actually have my layout customized.
If you look at this lower
section here with the addresses,
you see that it's not just the
standard one or two row column layout.
It's beautified a little bit here
in the middle with the street and it
mixes rows and columns a little bit.
Another thing you might notice is that
there's a new button in the Find window
which allows you to create reports.
So if I click on that I get this
modal dialog where I can choose
types of reports and then if I press
OK I will actually get an HTML report
and display it here on my client side.
I can do that with
another format as well.
So I can create different
kinds of reports.
Another thing you might notice is that
in the menu here we have additional menu
items to export and import the database.
I'm not going to show you that
because it would take too long.
But you can also create
reports based on the category.
So for example all the nice companies
and persons actually are this.
And then as the last thing that I want
to show you there's a little info panel
and this is what you've been waiting for,
right?
Audience member: Hi!
Thank you.
So, ah!
There are things... Well,
you've seen that before.
So there are a bunch of
things happened here.
I changed the startup sequence.
I now have a login panel,
and actually something that
you didn't see right now
because I just logged in once.
But the application actually
stores the user preferences,
the window sizes that are just
generated in the database now.
I then added additional
actions in the query window.
I have this report button,
and then this complete new
functionality to generate HTML,
which is actually done on the
server side and then sent to the
client and just displayed there.
I added additional menu items and
complete new windows like the info panel.
If you can go back to screen number two,
please.
I know that was not in the script.
So let me just show you a few things.
So this is a
The xml for the login window.
In this case, I used frozen xml.
It just has a modal dialog controller,
an action button for the
cancel and the ok button.
Then here you can see that
I used my own controller classes.
I have my own special controller
classes that I use on the
client side to do my login.
Another thing that might be
interesting to point out is that
there's a subproject for reports.
And in here,
I have all these reports stored,
so I can actually open one of
them in WebObjects builder.
So I can use WebObjects
Builder to evaluate the HTML,
right?
This is how I did the reports.
And then there are a
bunch of these components,
of these four components that
contain the layout of the reports.
Well, I think that should be it for now.
So yeah.
Now I'd like the slides back, please.
So before I go into summary,
I'd like to give you a few good
reasons why we think you should
use Direct-to-Java Client.
And I think the most obvious reason is
that your development gets much faster.
I mean, we can save you a lot of time if
you use Direct-to-Java Client.
And that also means that it's
much cheaper for you to do the
development of your application.
Another good reason for you might
be that the learning curve to enter
WebObjects development is flattened.
If you're new to WebObjects
and you would have to do the
traditional development process,
you would have to know
about all these pieces.
You would have to know how
to create interface files.
You have to know how
to create a model file.
And you have to know how
to write business logic,
all this stuff.
But with the Direct-to-Java Client,
you already get an application
without knowing a lot about it.
You just need a database and your model,
and that's it for now.
And then once you have your application,
you can dig into all the pieces
that need heavy customization.
But it's a different way
of learning WebObjects.
So if you're new to WebObjects,
this is a very interesting
technology for you.
Because your mileage will be
much bigger in the beginning.
Also, since the user interface
is highly dynamic,
at least unless you freeze it,
your reaction time to requirement and
database changes will go down a lot.
So if you modify your tables,
if you add additional
attributes in the tables,
if you add additional relationships,
the application will pick it up
pretty much automatically for you.
So your reaction time is much faster.
I also claim that the testing
time should be a little reduced.
Because our controller classes
are-- we invest a lot of time in
testing our controller classes
and our application logic.
So you don't have to test that much.
And I guess just in general,
the message is that Direct-to-Java
Client allows you to focus
on your business logic.
You don't waste time in doing
the same steps again and again.
Drag a text field out of
a palette into a window.
Customize your layout
so that it looks nice,
all this stuff.
This is done for you.
So you can really focus
on your business logic.
And this is what you're paid for.
Right?
So you don't waste time.
time with anything else.
Before I go into the summary,
I'd like to comment on a statement
that I heard from a couple of people.
The statement is,
"Direct to Java Client," and the
same is true for Direct to Web,
"is just this super-duper wizard.
It makes a hell of a demo,
but in my real world scenario,
I can't really use that." I wrote
down a few comments on that,
and most of them I already mentioned,
so I'm not going to
read them to you again.
My take on this is that people who
make this statement have a fundamental
misunderstanding about Direct to
Web and Direct to Java Client.
This fundamental misunderstanding
is that Direct to Web and Direct to
Java Client live in their own world,
and that you cannot
get out of that world.
That is not true.
It's really easy,
both for Direct to Web and
Direct to Java Client,
to transition into this traditional
development where you use WebObjects to
create your own components and Interface
Builder to create your own components.
The two worlds can be mixed very easily.
If you look at it like that,
then the Direct to Web and Direct to
Java Client technologies help you a lot
bootstrapping your development process.
It's really getting much quicker for you,
but if the dynamic generation
is not good enough,
then you just do it in the old way.
There's no problem in mixing that.
You can use both Direct to
Web and Direct to Java Client
for all kinds of applications.
Database administration
might be very obvious.
I gave you two examples here:
a movies database and address management.
If you want to do some auto-processing
or billing or everything that
runs in the back office area,
Direct to Java Client
can help you with that.
So, we still have some time.
In summary,
I showed you that Direct to Java Client
enables very strong rapid development
and is very useful for prototyping.
You generate a lot of parts of the
application dynamically and we have
a lot of predefined functionality in
the form of these controller classes.
You have powerful ways of
customization for different needs and
the last step of customization is to
transition to the usual development.
Two more sessions that might
be interesting for you.
UF synchronization, caching,
and advanced UF.
You will probably not hear anything
about Direct to Web and Direct to
Java Client in these sessions,
but they are about
writing business logic,
so how to do validation and how
to write business logic in a good,
efficient way.
These two might be interesting for you.
For more information,
I guess it's the usual stuff,
you can go to our website.
We have a lab downstairs.
You all got an evaluation CD,
so just try it out.
So now I'd like a few of my
colleagues to come up and be
available for question and answers.